---
title: "Lexicographically First ∆ + 1 Vertex Coloring"
acronym: "LFDVC"
book_id: "A.2.6"
categories: ["Graph Theory"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
references: [246, 113, 47, 37, 198, 146, 187, 189, 55, 45, 272, 191]
related_problems:
  - id: "b-9-3"
    relation: "see-also"
  - id: a-1-5
    relation: see-also
---

## Given

An undirected graph $G = (V, E)$ with $\Delta$ equal to the maximum degree of any vertex in $V$, an ordering $v_1, \ldots, v_n$ on the vertices of $V$, a designated color $c$, and a vertex $v$.

## Problem

Is vertex $v$ colored with color $c$ in the lexicographically least coloring of the vertices of $G$? A coloring is an assignment of colors to the vertices such that no adjacent vertices receive the same color. The coloring uses at most $\Delta + 1$ colors. If $c_i$ is the color of $v_i$, where $c_i \in \\{1, \ldots, \Delta + 1\\}$, then each coloring corresponds to a $(\Delta + 1)$-ary number, and the least coloring is well-defined.

## Status

$\P$-complete (Luby <a href="#ref-1" class="reference-citation">[1]</a>).

## Remarks

The reduction to show hardness is from [NANDCVP]({{< relref "./a-1-5.md" >}}). The problem of $\Delta - 1$ coloring is $\NP$-complete (Garey and Johnson <a href="#ref-2" class="reference-citation">[2]</a>). For graphs that are not an odd cycle or complete, a $\Delta$ coloring can be found in polynomial time (Brook's Theorem, see Brooks <a href="#ref-3" class="reference-citation">[3]</a> or, for example, Bondy and Murty <a href="#ref-4" class="reference-citation">[4]</a>). However, this is not necessarily the lexicographically first coloring. $\Delta + 1$ vertex coloring is $\NC^1$ reducible to finding a maximal independent set, but the maximal independent set algorithm (Karp and Wigderson <a href="#ref-5" class="reference-citation">[5]</a>) does not produce the lexicographically first maximal independent set. It is possible to color a graph with $\Delta$ colors in $\NC$, although again the coloring produced is not the lexicographically first (Hajnal and Szemerédi <a href="#ref-6" class="reference-citation">[6]</a>, Karchmer and Naor <a href="#ref-7" class="reference-citation">[7]</a>, Karloff <a href="#ref-8" class="reference-citation">[8]</a>). Chlebus et al. show that for *tree structured* graphs LFDVC can be solved in $\NC$ <a href="#ref-9" class="reference-citation">[9]</a>. There are also $\NC$ algorithms for five coloring planar graphs (Boyar and Karloff <a href="#ref-10" class="reference-citation">[10]</a>, Naor <a href="#ref-11" class="reference-citation">[11]</a>). Karloff and Shmoys give $\NC$ algorithms for edge coloring problems <a href="#ref-12" class="reference-citation">[12]</a>. In particular, they show that multigraphs can be edge colored with $3\lceil \Delta/2 \rceil$ colors on a COMMON CRCW-PRAM using $O((\log(\Delta|V|))^3)$ time and $\Delta|V|$ processors. For the same model and multigraphs with $\Delta$ equal to three, they use four colors, and $O(\log |V|)$ time and $|V| + |E|$ processors. Again on the same model for simple graphs using $\Delta + 1$ colors, Karloff and Shmoys obtain a $\Delta^{O(1)}(\log |V|)^{O(1)}$ time, $|V|^{O(1)}$ processor algorithm. This results in an $\NC$ algorithm for polylogarithmic $\Delta$. See also [EC]({{< relref "./b-9-3.md" >}}).