---
title: "High Degree Subgraph"
acronym: "HDS"
book_id: "A.2.7"
categories: ["Graph Theory"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
references:
  - 14
  - author: "Y. S. Couto, C. G. Fernandes"
    title: "Hardness of Dynamic Core and Truss Decompositions"
    year: 2025
    doi: "10.1007/978-3-032-06706-7_5"
  - 134
  - 365
related_problems:
  - id: a-1-4
    relation: see-also
  - id: a-2-11
    relation: see-also
---

## Given

An undirected graph $G = (V, E)$, a vertex $v$, and an integer $k$.

## Problem

Is $v$ contained in a vertex induced subgraph of $G$ with minimum degree at least $k$?

## Status

$\P$-complete (Anderson and Mayr [1]).

## Remarks

The $k$-core of a graph is its maximum (unique) subgraph with minimum degree at least $k$.

The reduction to show hardness is from [AM2CVP]({{< relref "./a-1-4.md" >}}), and it and it follows even when $k \leq 3$ (3-Core) on graphs of maximum degree 4.

In the late 90's, the problem used to be called High Degree Subgraph (HDS), but more recent research calls this the k-Core problem. However, it is recently more explored in other models (dynamic, distributed) rather than in a classic PRAM model.

In the origimal paper for the $\P$-completeness, the problem is stated as here (except it's called HDS), while in [5] the task is to decide whether a non-empty $k$-core exists (we shall hence refer to this as NE-k-Core). These are slightly different variants, but both are shown to be $\P$-complete in [1].

There is an $\NC$ algorithm computing the 2-core of a graph (and thus deciding 2-Core and NE-2-Core).

Let the core value $C_G(v)$ of $v$ be the largest $k$ such that $v$ is in the $k$-core of $G$, and $C(G)$ the largest value of $C_G(v)$. We can consider the optimization problem of finding $C_G(v)$ for a fixed $v$, or $C(G)$ for the graph.

For any $\epsilon > 0$, there is a $(2+\epsilon)$-approximation algorithm for finding $C_G(v)$ [1], that is, computing $e$ such that $C_G(v) \leq x \leq (2+\epsilon)C_G(v)$. Furthermore, computing any $(2-\epsilon)$-approximation is $\P$-hard.

Several variants of this problem, for directed graphs, bipartite graphs, and the k-Truss are also $\P$-complete [2].

The complementary Low Degree Subgraph Problem has also been studied and for several natural decision problems it is $\NP$-complete (Greenlaw [3]). Decision problems based on ordered vertex removal relating to subgraph computations are also $\P$-complete [3].

A special case of k-Core is the Color Index Problem (Vishwanathan and Sridhar [4]): given an undirected graph $G = (V, E)$, is the color index of $G$ less than or equal to four? The *color index* is the maximum over all subgraphs $H$ of $G$, of the minimum degree of $H$. Asking if the color index is less than or equal to four is complementary to asking if there are any high degree subgraphs of order five.
The original reduction for Color Index is from [OLDVR]({{< relref "./a-2-11.md" >}}).
