---
title: "Hierarchical Graph Accessibility Problem"
acronym: "HGAP"
book_id: "A.2.4"
categories: ["Graph Theory"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
references: [231]
related_problems:
  - id: a-2-3
    relation: see-also
---

## Given

A hierarchical graph $G = (V, E)$ and two designated vertices $s$ and $t$. A hierarchical graph $\Gamma = (G_1, \ldots, G_k)$ consists of $k$ subcells $G_i$, $1 \leq i \leq k$. Each subcell is a graph that contains three types of vertices called pins, inner vertices, and nonterminals. The *pins* are the vertices through which the subcell can be connected to from the outside. The *inner vertices* cannot be connected to from the outside. The *nonterminals* stand for previously defined subcells. A nonterminal inside $G_i$ has a name and a type. The *name* is a unique number or string. The *type* is a number from $1, \ldots, i - 1$. A nonterminal $v$ of type $j$ stands for a copy of subcell $G_j$. The neighbors of $v$ are in a one-to-one correspondence with the pins of $G_j$ via a mapping that is specified as part of $\Gamma$.

## Problem

Is there a path between $s$ and $t$ in the expansion graph of $G$? An *expansion graph* is a hierarchical graph expanded. The graph is expanded by expanding cell $G_k$ recursively. To expand subcell $G_i$, expand its subcells $G_1, \ldots, G_{i-1}$ recursively and replace each nonterminal $v$ of type $j$ with a copy of the expansion of subcell $G_j$.

## Status

$\P$-complete (Lengauer and Wagner [1]).

## Remarks

The reduction to show hardness is from [AGAP]({{< relref "./a-2-3.md" >}}). Hierarchical versions of the following problems are also $\P$-complete: graph accessibility in undirected graphs, determining whether a directed graph contains a cycle, and determining whether a given graph is bipartite [1]. There are several other very restricted versions of hierarchical graph problems that are $\P$-complete. See [1] for details.
