---
title: "Linear Programming (*)"
acronym: "LP"
book_id: "A.4.3"
categories: ["Combinatorial Optimization"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
draft: false
import_confidence: "high"
references: [93, 94, 277, 304, 327, 257, 237, 75]
---

## Given

An integer $n \times d$ matrix $A$, an integer $n \times 1$ vector $\mathbf{b}$, and an integer $1 \times d$ vector $\mathbf{c}$.

## Problem

Find a rational $d \times 1$ vector $\mathbf{x}$ such that $A\mathbf{x} \leq \mathbf{b}$ and $\mathbf{c}\mathbf{x}$ is maximized.

## Status

$\P$-complete problem from Greenlaw et al. (1995), Problem A.4.3.

## Remarks

The original reduction in [1] is from HORN, Problem A.6.2, to LP. In [2], LP and LI are shown to be logarithmic space equivalent by reducing LP to LI using rational binary search (Papadimitriou [3], Reiss [4]) to find the value of the maximum and an $\mathbf{x}$ that yields it. However, it is not clear how to perform this reduction in NC1. Since LP and LI are complete via NC1 reductions though, there must be an NC1 reduction between the two problems. Although we know that LP and LI are NC1 equivalent, the NC1 reduction between them is not an obvious one. Serna shows it is $\P$-complete to approximate a solution approximation, which requires finding an $\mathbf{x}'$ close to the optimal solution, and to approximate a value approximation, which requires finding an $\mathbf{x}'$ such that $\mathbf{c}\mathbf{x}'$ is close to $\mathbf{c}\mathbf{x}$ [5]. Megiddo gives a reduction of LP to Serna’s approximate problem [6]. It is also $\P$-hard to approximate $\mathbf{c}\mathbf{x}$ to within any constant fraction, even given a feasible solution $\mathbf{x}'$ (Anne Condon, Personal Communication, 1991); reduction is from Discounted Markov Decision Process, Problem A.8.2. See Lin-Kriz and Pan [7] for some results on two variable linear programming. Dahlhaus observes that for $d$ equal to 3 and values over the reals the problem is $\P$-complete, whereas for $d$ equal to 2, the problem is in $\NC$ [8].

