---
title: "Height-priority Schedule"
acronym: "HPS"
book_id: "A.4.9"
categories: ["Combinatorial Optimization"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
references: [95]
related_problems:
  - id: a-4-8
    relation: see-also
  - id: a-1-1
    relation: see-also
---

## Given

A directed, outforest $G = (V, E)$ specifying the precedence constraints among the $|V|$ unit time tasks that are represented by the vertices of $G$, a nondecreasing profile $\mu$, a designated task $j$, and a time slot $t$. To define terms we follow the discussion given in [1]. A graph is an *outforest* if every task has at most one incoming edge. The *profile* $\mu$ is a function from $\N$ to $\N - \\{0\\}$, where $\mu(i)$ denotes the number of machines available at the $i$-th *time slot*, that is, the interval $[i, i + 1)$. If a profile has only one value, $m$, then it is called *straight*.

A schedule $s$ for a graph $G$ and a profile $\mu$ is a function from vertices of $G$ onto an initial segment $\\{0, \ldots, l - 1\\}$ of $\N$, such that
1. $|s^{-1}(r)| \leq \mu(r)$, for all $r$ in $\\{0, \ldots, l - 1\\}$ and
2. if $y$ is a successor of $x$ in $G$, then $s(x) < s(y)$.

Value $l$ denotes the length of the schedule. A minimum length schedule is called *optimal*. A schedule is *greedy* if the maximum number of tasks is scheduled at every slot, that is, $|s^{-1}(k)| < \mu(k)$ implies that every $y$ such that $s(y) > k$ is a successor of some vertex $s$ in $s^{-1}(k)$.

A *priority* $q$ is a function from the set of tasks into $\N$. A schedule $s$ is a *$q$-priority schedule* if vertices of higher priority are preferred over vertices of lower priority. Among the vertices of the same priority ties are broken arbitrarily. A $q$-priority schedule also has the property that $s(x) > s(y)$ and $q(x) > q(y)$ imply that $x$ is a successor of some vertex $z$ with $s(z) = s(y)$. *Height* is typically used as a priority function. Vertices without successors have a height of zero. A profile is called *nondecreasing* if $\mu(k) \leq \mu(k + 1)$ for every slot $k$.

## Problem

Is task $j$ scheduled in time slot $t$ by the height-priority schedule?

## Status

$\P$-complete (Dolev, Upfal, and Warmuth [1]).

## Remarks

The reduction to show hardness is from a vairant of the Top[CVP]({{< relref "./a-1-1.md" >}}).
Dolev, Upfal, and Warmuth show several other problems are $\P$-complete. We mention a few of them here. Consult [1] for terms that are not defined here. *Height-priority schedule for an opposing forest and a straight line profile*, *height-priority schedule for a level order and straight line profile*, *weight-priority* (using only three different weights) *schedule for an outforest and a straight profile*, *greedy schedule*, and the *lexicographically first schedule for an outforest and a straight line profile* are all $\P$-complete [1].

When the number of machines $m$ is fixed and does not vary with time, and when the precedence constraints are given by a collection of *outtrees*; Dolev, Upfal, and Warmuth give EREW-PRAM algorithms for computing optimal schedules. In the former case the algorithm runs in $O(\log n)$ time using $n^2$ processors and in the latter case the algorithm runs in $O((\log n)^2)$ time using $n$ processors. Also see [GLS]({{< relref "./a-4-8.md" >}}) for additional scheduling results.
