---
title: "Maximum Flow (MaxFlow)"
acronym: ""
book_id: "A.4.4"
categories: ["Combinatorial Optimization"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
draft: false
confidence: "high"
references: [92, 108, 103, 196, 295, 174, 175, 171, 207, 339]
---

## Given

A directed graph $G = (V, E)$ with each edge $e$ labeled by an integer capacity $c(e) \geq 0$, two distinguished vertices, source $s$ and sink $t$, and a value $f$.

## Problem

Is there a feasible flow of value $f$, that is, is the value of the maximum flow into the sink greater than or equal to $f$?

## Status

$\P$-complete problem from Greenlaw et al. (1995), Problem A.4.4.

## Remarks

See Dinic [1] or Ford and Fulkerson [2] for basic definitions and polynomial time algorithms. This reduction produces exponential edge capacities in $G$. In a network with edge capacities expressed in unary, computing the magnitude of the maximum flow is in $\text{RNC}^2$ (Feather [3]) and a method for finding the flow in $\text{RNC}$ is also known (Karp, Upfal, and Wigderson [4]). If the network is restricted to being acyclic, MaxFlow remains $\P$-complete (Ramachandran [5]). Flows in planar networks can be computed in $\text{NC}$ (Johnson [6], Johnson and Venkatesan [7]). Two Commodity Flow (2CF) is defined similar to MaxFlow except there are two sources and two sinks, and there are two separate flow functions for the commodities. Since MaxFlow is a special case of 2CF and 2CF is in $\P$ by results of Itai [8] and Khachian [9], it follows that 2CF is $\P$-complete. Itai defined several other variants of 2CF that are also $\P$-complete. They are defined below. $(l, u)$-2CF is a restricted form of 2CF in which there are lower and upper bounds on the capacity of each edge. Selective $(l, u)$-2CF is defined to be a 2CF with lower and upper bounds on the sum of the two flows on each edge. Stein and Wein show that, although there is an RNC algorithm to approximate maximum flow, approximating the minimum cost maximum flow is $\P$-complete [10].
