---
title: "Lexicographically First Different Than"
acronym: ""
book_id: "A.5.8"
categories: ["Local Optimality"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
draft: false
confidence: "high"
references: [246, 119, 324, 316]
---

## Given

An undirected graph $G = (V, E)$ with a numbering on the vertices and a designated vertex $v$. A different than majority labeling is a labeling of the vertices with either $0$ or $1$ such that each vertex is labeled differently than at least half of its neighbors. A greedy sequential algorithm for solving this problem begins by initially assigning the value $0$ to each vertex. The algorithm iterates through the vertices in order flipping a vertex's label if it is not correctly labeled. The flipping process is repeated until the overall labeling is a different than majority labeling. The labeling produced by this algorithm is called the lexicographically first different than majority labeling.

## Problem

Is vertex $v$ labeled $1$ in the lexicographically first different than majority labeling?

## Status

$\P$-complete problem from Greenlaw et al. (1995), Problem A.5.8.

## Remarks

The parallel complexity of Different Than Majority Labeling (DTML) was posed as an open question by Luby [246]. DTML was also discussed by Godbeer [119] and the problem was reduced to a version of a connectionist model problem, see Problem A.5.7. Schäffer and Yannakakis proved the problem to be equivalent to Problem A.5.4 [324]. Therefore, the problem is $\P$-complete. Sarnath and He show that LFDTML remains $\P$-complete when restricted to planar graphs [316]. They also give another sequential algorithm for the problem and state that a decision problem based on this algorithm is also $\P$-complete [316].
