---
title: "Logical Query Program"
acronym: "LQP"
book_id: "A.6.10"
categories: ["Logic"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
references: [355, 4, 3]
related_problems:
  - id: a-6-8
    relation: reduces-from
  - id: a-6-8
    relation: see-also
---

## Given

An extended logic program $P$, and a ground clause $C$ of the form $p(\overline{x}) \coloneq q_1(\overline{y}_1), \ldots, q_k(\overline{y}_k)$. 

## Problem

Is $C$ a theorem of $P$?

## Definitions

A *ground clause* is one in which all arguments (e.g. $\overline{x}$ and $\overline{y}_i$ above) are constants. An *extended logic program* is a basic logic program plus an extensional data base instance. A *basic logic program* is a finite set of rules. A *rule* is a disjunction of literals having exactly one positive literal, called the *head*. The negative literals in the clause are called *subgoals*. The set of predicate symbols that appear only in subgoals is called the *Extensional Database*, or EDB. An EDB *fact* is an EDB predicate with constants as arguments. An EDB *instance* is a finite set of EDB facts. $C$ is a *theorem* of $P$ if the head of $C$ is derivable from its subgoals in $P$.

## Status

$\P$-complete (Ullman and Van Gelder [1]).

## Remarks

The reduction is from [PATH]({{< relref "./a-6-8.md" >}}).
Remains $\P$-complete even for very restricted programs. In $\NC$ for programs with the "polynomial fringe property." See [1] for details. Afrati and Papadimitriou classify *simple chain programs* according to their parallel complexities [2]. They show a certain subclass of simple chain programs are in $\NC$ and that all other simple chain programs are $\P$-complete.

Afrati describes additional classes of logic programs that can be solved in $\NC$, and also provides sufficient conditions for single rule programs to be $\P$-complete [3]. Refer to [3] for definitions, further details, and numerous open problems.
