---
title: "Left-linear Semi-unification"
acronym: "LLSU"
book_id: "A.6.11"
categories: ["Logic"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
references: [140, 155, 96]
related_problems:
  - id: a-1-3
    relation: reduces-from
  - id: a-6-9
    relation: see-also
  - id: b-3-2
    relation: see-also
---

## Given

A set of pairs of terms $S = \\{(M_1, N_1), \ldots, (M_k, N_k)\\}$ that is left linear.

## Problem

Is $S$ semi-unifiable?

## Definitions

We follow the discussion given in [[1]](#1) for definitions. A *ranked alphabet* $A = (F, a)$ is a finite set $F$ of *function symbols* together with an *arity* function $a$ that maps every element in $F$ to a natural number. A function symbol of arity 0 is called a *constant*. The set of *variables* $V$ is a denumerable infinite set that is disjoint from $F$. The *terms* over $A$ and $V$ is the set $T(A, V)$ consisting of all strings generated by the grammar $$M \to x \mid c \mid f(M, \ldots, M),$$ where $f$ is a function symbol from $A$ with arity $k$ greater than 0, $c$ is a constant, $x$ is any variable from $V$, and $M$ appears $k$ times as an argument to $f$.

Two terms $M$ and $N$ are *equal*, written $M = N$, if and only if they are identical as strings. A *substitution* $\sigma$ is a mapping from $V$ to $T(A, V)$ that is the identity on all but a finite set of $V$. The set of variables on which $\sigma$ is *not* the identity is the *domain* of $\sigma$. Every substitution $\sigma : V \to T(A, V)$ can be extended to $\sigma : T(A, V) \to T(A, V)$ by defining $$\sigma(f(M_1, \ldots, M_k)) = f(\sigma(M_1), \ldots, \sigma(M_k)).$$

A term $M$ *subsumes* $N$, written $M \leq N$, if there is a substitution $\rho$ such that $\rho(M) = N$. Given $S$ a substitution $\sigma$ is a *semi-unifier* of $S$ if $$\sigma(M_1) \leq \sigma(N_1), \ldots, \sigma(M_k) \leq \sigma(N_k).$$

Set $S$ is *semi-unifiable* if it has a semi-unifier.

## Status

$\P$-complete (Henglein [[2]](#2)).

## Remarks

The proof is adapted from the one for [UNIF]({{< relref "./a-6-9.md" >}}) [[3]](#3), so it is from [MCVP]({{< relref "./a-1-3.md" >}}).

Define $k$LLSU to be the problem of left-linear semiunifiability with exactly $k$ *term inequalities* (same $k$ as above) and *Monadic Semi-unification* (MSU) to be the problem of semiunifiability for the alphabet $A = (F, a)$, where $a(f)$ is greater than or equal to 1 for all $f \in F$ and $a(f)$ equals 1 for at least one $f$.

2LLSU and MSU are $\P$-complete [[1]](#1). See Problem [UNIF]({{< relref "./a-6-9.md" >}}) for related problems. Also see [1LLSU]({{< relref "./b-3-2.md" >}}) for an open problem.
