---
title: "Visibility Layers"
acronym: "VL"
book_id: "A.9.3"
categories: ["Geometry"]
status: "p-complete"
tags: []
draft: false
confidence: "high"
references: ["18", "156"]
---

## Given

A set of $n$ nonintersecting line segments in the Euclidean plane and a designated segment $s$.

## Problem

Is the label assigned to segment $s$ by the visibility layering process congruent to one mod three? The visibility layering process is repeatedly to compute and delete the upper envelope of the remaining set of segments and label those segments with the current depth. The upper envelope consists of those segments visible from the point $(0, +\infty)$. A segment is visible from a point $p$ if a ray cast from $p$ can hit the segment before hitting any other segment.

## Status

$\P$-complete problem from Greenlaw et al. (1995), Problem A.9.3.

## Remarks

The reduction given in [18] is similar and is also from a variant of MCVP. The main difference is in the way fanout is treated. The version of MCVP used in [18] consists of crossing fanout gates, single output and gates, and single output or gates. An instance consists of alternate routing and logic layers. Gadgets are constructed for the three types of gates and a similar decision problem to the one in [156] is posed to determine the output of the circuit. If the length of all segments is required to be the same, the complexity of the problem is not known [18]. In [18] they conjecture that this version of the problem is in $\text{NC}$.
